---
layout: post
title: Reflections from RustNation 2023
tags: rust
---


I'm on the train back to Leeds after a fantastic 2 days at [RustNation](https://www.rustnationuk.com/) the first UK Rust language conference. 
I was lucky enough to have my work support me in attending and get an early bird ticket which enabled me to take part in the full day workshop on Thursday as well as the conference on Friday.

I've been interested in Rust for a couple of years now and whilst I've yet to see it used within research software (I'm sure research software written is Rust does exist I just haven't seen it!), I'm super interested in where this language is going and how it could be applied to research software.
Out of work I've also dabbled with Rust and as someone from a Python background I've found the learning curve steep (as advertised) but benefitted from the host of terrific resources available to learn ([See notes on this](../learn_rust.md)).
So RustNation UK seemed like the perfect opportunity to learn more and speak to others about how Rust is being used and taught.

The conference was hosted at the Brewery in London and kicked off on Thursday with all day workshops separated into 3 tracks: beginner, intermediate and expert.
I selected the [intermediate workshop](https://github.com/codurance/rust-nation-intermediate-workshop) (run by Jocelyn Facchini from Codurance) which looked to cover generics, traits, macros, threads and web assembly. 
All topics I've read about but never quite got my head around.
My head was thoroughly fried by the end of the day but it had been great to not only have someone clearly outline these topics and their applications in Rust programs but also get stuck in to challenging but practical code examples.
The section on macros in particular really helped solidify how you create and use macros in Rust.
The workshop also served as a really fun environment to speak to others using Rust and hear about how they were using it and work together to crack the code examples (Ibrahim and James, you were very helpful!). 
It was also great to see how these more advanced topics were approached from a teaching perspective and it was particularly useful to chat with the instructor for the beginners session in one of the breaks about how they approached introducing people to Rust.
The final section on web assembly looked specifically at the [Yew framework](yew.rs), this was really interesting as a way of developing component-based web applications using Rust that I hadn't heard of before.

Day 2 kicked off at 9am with the keynote from Nell Shamrell-Harrington talking about the cycle of learning, teaching, delivering in the Rust community.
It touched on a lot of the things I think are great about Rust with the community's openness to beginners, the  availability of resources like [the book]() and initiatives like [This Week in Rust]() (which has been a great entrypoint for me to see how to use Rust).
This all fed into what I'd call the Rust promise, which is the welcoming culture that encourages us not just to learn Rust for ourselves but to learn Rust to share what we've learned with others (something I can definitely get on board with!).


